Today I'm chatting with Sergey Levven
who is a co-founder of physical
intelligence which is a robotics
foundations model company and also
professor at UC Berkeley and just
generally one of the world's leading
researchers in robotics RL and AI.
Sergey, thank you for coming on the
podcast.
>> Thank you and thank you for the kind
introduction.
>> Let's talk about robotics. So before I
pepper you with questions, I'm wondering
if you can give the audience a summary
of where physical intelligence is at
right now. You guys started a year ago.
Yeah.
>> And what does the progress look like?
What are you guys working on?
>> Yeah. So, physical intelligence aims to
build robotic foundation models. And
that basically means general purpose
models that could in principle control
any robot to perform any task. Uh we
care about this because we we see this
as a very fundamental uh aspect of the
AI problem. Like the robot is
essentially uh encompassing all AI
technology. If you can get a robot
that's truly general, then you can uh
do, you know, hopefully a large chunk of
what people can do. And where we're at
right now is I think we've kind of
gotten to the point where we've uh built
out a lot of the basics. And you know, I
think those basics actually are pretty
cool. Like they work pretty well. We can
get a robot that will like fold laundry
and that will go into a new home and
like try to clean up the kitchen. But in
my mind, what we're doing at physical
intelligence right now is really the
very very early beginning. It's just
like putting in place the basic building
blocks on top of which we can then
tackle all these like really tough
problems.
>> And what's a year-by-year vision? So,
um, one year in now, I got a chance to
watch some of the robots and they can do
pretty dextrous tasks like folding a box
using grippers and it's like I don't
know, it's like pretty hard to fold the
box even with like my hands. Um, if you
had to go year by year until we get to
the full like robotics explosion, what
is happening every single year? What is
the thing that needs to be unlocked etc.
So there are a few things that we need
to get right. Uh I mean dexterity
obviously is one of them and in the
beginning we really wanted to make sure
that we um understand whether the
methods that we're developing have the
ability to tackle like the kind of
intricate tasks that people can do as
you mentioned like folding a box uh
folding different articles of laundry
cleaning up a table uh making a coffee
that sort of thing. And that's like
that's good like that works. Uh you know
I think that the results we've been able
to show are pretty cool but again like
the end goal of this is not to fold a
nice t-shirt. the end goal was to just
like confirm our initial hypothesis that
like the basics are kind of solid.
>> Yeah.
>> But from there there are a number of
really major challenges. And I think
that you know sometimes when um results
get abstracted to the level of like a
3minute video someone can look at this
video like it's like oh that's cool like
that's what they're doing but it's not
like it's a very simple and uh basic
version of what I think is to come. Like
what you really want from a robot is not
to tell it like hey please fold my
t-shirt. What you want from a robot is
to tell it like, "Hey, robot, like,
you're now doing all sorts of uh home
tasks for me. Uh, I like to have dinner
made at 6 p.m. Uh, I wake up and go to
work at 7:00 a.m. Uh, I'd like, you
know, I like to do my laundry on on
Saturday, so make sure that's ready.
This and this and this. Uh, and by the
way, check in with me like every Monday
to see like, you know, what I want you
to do to pick up when you do the
shopping, right?" Like that's the
prompt. And then the robot should go and
do this for like, you know, 6 months, a
year. like that's the duration of the
task. So it's it's a it's
>> ultimately if if this stuff is
successful, it should be a lot bigger
>> and it should have that ability to learn
continuously. It should have the uh
understanding of the physical world, the
common sense, the ability to go in and
pull in more information if it needs it.
Like if I ask you like, hey, um tonight
like uh you know, can you uh can you
make me this type of salad? Okay, you
should like figure out what that
entails. Like look it up, go buy the
ingredients. So there's a lot that goes
into this. It requires common sense. It
requires understanding that there are
certain edge cases you need to handle
intelligently, cases where you need to
think harder. Uh it requires the ability
to improve continuously. It requires
understanding safety, being reliable at
the right time, being able to fix your
mistakes when you do make those
mistakes. So there's a lot more that
goes into this. Um but the principles
there are you need to leverage prior
knowledge and you need to have the right
representations.
>> So so this grand vision, what year if
you had to give an est median estimate?
>> Yeah. or 25 percentile 50 75
>> I think it's something where it's not
going to be a case where we develop
everything in the laboratory and then
it's done and then you know come 20 30
something you get a robot in a box I
think it'll be the same as what we've
seen with AI assistance that uh once we
reach some basic level of competence
where the robot is delivering something
useful it'll go out there in the world
the cool thing is that once it's out
there in the world they can collect
experience and leverage that experience
to get betterm So to me like what what I
tend to think about a lot in terms of
timelines is not the date when it will
be done but the date when it will when
like the flywheel starts basically.
>> Okay. So when does the flywheel start?
>> I think that could be very soon. Uh and
I and I think there's some decisions to
be made like the trade-off there is the
more narrow you you you scope the thing
the earlier you can get it out into the
real world. Um so uh but soon as in like
this is something we're already
exploring. we're already trying to
figure out like what are like the real
things this thing could do that could
allow us to start spinning the flywheel.
But I think in terms of like stuff that
you would actually care about that you
would want to see. Um so I don't know
but I think that singledigit years is
very realistic. I'm really hoping it'll
be more like one or two before some
something is like actually out there.
But it's hard to say.
>> And something being out there means
what? Like what what is out there? It
means that there is a robot that does a
thing that you actually care about that
that you want done and it does so
competently enough to like actually do
it for real for real people that want it
done.
>> We already have LLMs which are like
broadly deployed and that hasn't
resulted in some sort of like flywheel.
Um
>> at least not some obvious flywheel for
the model companies where the now claude
is like learning how to do every single
job in the economy or GPT is learning
how to do every single job in the
economy. So why did why doesn't that fly
work for LLMs?
>> Well, I think it's actually uh I think
it's actually very close to working and
I I I am like 100% certain that many
organizations are working on exactly
this. In fact, arguably there is already
a flywheel in the sense that not an
automated flywheel but a human loop
flywheel where everybody who's deploying
an LLM is of course going to look at
what it's doing and it's going to use
that uh to then modify its behavior. uh
it it it it's complex because uh it
comes back to this question of
representations and figuring out the
right way to derive uh supervision
signals and ground those supervision
signals in the behavior of the system so
that it actually improves on what you
want.
>> And I don't think that's like a
profoundly impossible problem. It's just
something where the details get like
pretty gnarly and challenges with
algorithms and stability become pretty
complex. So it's just it's something
that's taken a while for uh the
community collectively to get their
hands around.
>> Do you think it'll be easier for
robotics or just that like this the
state of this kind of uh techniques to
label data that you collect out in the
world and use it as a reward will just
the the sort of like um the whole wave
will rise and robotics will rise as real
or is there some reason you think
robotics will be will benefit more from
this? Yeah, I don't think there's like a
profound reason why robotics is that
different, but there are a few small
differences that I think uh make things
a little bit more manageable. So, uh
especially if you have a robot that's
doing something in cooperation with
people, whether it's a person that's
supervising it or directing it, like
there are very natural sources of
supervision and there's a there's a big
incentive for the person to provide the
assistance that will make things
succeed. Uh there are a lot of dynamics
where you can make mistakes and recover
from those mistakes and then reflect
back on what happened and avoid that
mistake in the future. And I think that
when you're doing physical things in the
real world, that kind of stuff just
happens more often uh than it does if
you're like an AI assistant answering a
question. Like if you answer a question,
you just like answered it wrong. It's
like well it's not like you can just
like go back and like tweak a few things
like the person you told the answer to
might not even know that it's wrong.
Whereas if you're like folding the
t-shirt and you messed up a little bit
like it's pretty obvious like you can
reflect on that, figure out what
happened and do it better next time.
>> Yeah. So okay, what in one year we have
robots which are like doing some useful
things. Maybe if you have some like
relatively simple like loopy process,
they can they can do it for you. It's
just like you got to keep folding like
thousands of boxes or something. But
then there's some flywheel dot dot dot.
There's some machine which will like
just run my house for me. Uh as well as
a human housekeeper would. Um what is
the gap between this thing which will be
deployed in a year that starts the
flywheel and this thing which is like a
fully autonomous housekeeper? Well, I
think it's actually not that different
than what we've seen with LLMs in some
ways that it's a matter of scope. Like
if you think about coding assistance,
right? Like initially the best tools for
coding, they could do like a little bit
of completion. Like you give them a
function signature and they'll like try
their best to type out like the whole
function and they'll maybe like get half
of it right. Uh, and as that stuff
progresses, then you're willing to give
these things a lot more agency so that
like the very best coding assistance
now, like if you have if you're doing
something relatively formulaic, maybe it
can like put together most of a most of
a PR for you for something, you know,
fairly accessible, right? So, I think
it'll be the same thing that that we'll
see an increase in the scope that we're
giving that we're willing to give to the
robots as they get better and better
where initially the scope might be like
there is a particular thing you do like
you're making the coffee or something.
Uh whereas as they get more capable, as
their ability to have common sense and a
broader repertoire of tasks increases,
then we'll give them greater scope. Now
you're running the whole coffee shop.
>> Um I get that there's a spectrum and I
get that there won't be a specific
moment that feels like we've achieved
it. But if you had to give a year in
which like that your median estimate of
when that happens.
>> I mean my my sense there too is that
this is a probably a single-digit thing
rather than a double- digit thing. But
the reason it's so hard to really pin
down is because as with as with all
research, it does depend on figuring out
a few question marks. And I think my my
answer in terms of the nature of those
question marks is I don't think these
are things that require
profoundly deeply different ideas, but
it does require the right synthesis of
the kinds of things um that we already
know. And you know, sometimes synthesis,
to be clear, is just as difficult as
coming up with like profoundly new
stuff, right? Uh so I I think it's
intellectually a very deep and profound
problem and and figuring that out is
going to be like very exciting. Uh but
it uh I think we kind of like know like
roughly the puzzle pieces and it's
something that we need to work on and I
think if we work on it and we're a bit
lucky and everything kind of goes as
planned I think single digit is
reasonable.
>> Okay. I'm just going to do binary search
until like a year. Um okay so it's less
than 10 errors. So more than 5 years
your median estimate I know it's like a
>> I think five is a good median.
>> Okay 5 years. So if it can fully
autonomously run a house then I think
you've like it can fully autonomously do
most blue collar work. So your estimate
is in 5 years it should be able to do
most like blue collar work in the
economy.
>> So I think there's there's a nuance
here. Uh and and the nuance is it
becomes more obvious if we consider the
analogy to the coding assistance right?
It's not like the um the nature of
coding assistance today is that there's
a switch that flips and suddenly instead
of writing software like suddenly like
all software engineers get fired and
everyone's using LMS for everything. Uh
>> and that actually makes a lot of sense
that the biggest gain in productivity
comes from experts which is software
engineers whose effect whose
productivity is now augmented by these
really powerful tools.
>> Yeah. I mean separate from the question
of uh whether people will get fired or
not a different question is just like
what will the economic impact be in five
years?
>> Yeah.
>> Um the reason I'm curious about this is
with LLMs the relationship between the
revenues for these models to their
inherent their seeming capability has
been sort of mysterious in the sense
that like you have something which feels
like AGI you can have a conversation
with that really like is like you know
like passes a touring test. It really
feels like it can do all this knowledge
work. It's obviously doing a bunch of
coding etc. But then the revenues for
these AI companies are on like
cumitively on the order of like 2030
billion um per year and that's so much
less than all knowledge work which is 30
$40 trillion. Um so in 5 years are we in
a similar situation that LLMs are in now
or is it more like we have robots
deployed everywhere and they're actually
like doing a whole bunch of real work
etc.
>> It's it's a very subtle question.
I think what it probably will come down
to is this is this question of scope,
right? Like the reason that LLMs aren't
doing all software engineering is
because they're good within a certain
scope, but there's limits to that and
those limits are increasing to be clear
every year. uh and I think that there's
no reason that that we wouldn't see the
same kind of thing with robots that um
the scope will have to start out small
because there will be certain things
that these things that these systems can
do very well and certain other things
where more human oversight is really
important and the scope will grow and
what that will translate into is
increased productivity and some of that
productivity will come from like the
robots themselves being valuable and
some of it will come from the people
using the robots are now more productive
in their
>> work productivity just like wearing
gloves increases productivity or like I
don't know but then it's like you want
to understand something which like
increases productivity 100fold versus
like uh you know wearing glasses inc or
something which has like a small
increase so robots already increase
productivity for uh workers right um
where LLMs are right now in terms of the
share of knowledge work they can do
which is it's I guess probably like one
1,000th of the knowledge work that
happens in the economy LLMs are doing at
least in terms of revenue. Um are you
saying like that fraction will be
possible for robots but for physical
work in 5 years?
>> That's a very hard question to answer.
Uh I think
I'm probably not prepared to tell you
what percentage of all labor work can be
done by robots because I don't think
right now off the cuff I have a
sufficient understanding of uh what's
involved in uh
>> you know that big of a cross-section of
all physical labor. Uh I think what I
can tell you is this that I think it's
much easier to get effective systems
rolled out gradually in a human in the
loop setup. And again, I think this is
like exactly what we've seen with with
coding systems. And I think we'll see
the same thing with automation where uh
basically robot plus human is much
better than just human or just robot. Uh
and and that just like makes total
sense. It also makes it much easier to
get all the technology bootstrapped
because when it's robot plus human, now
there's a lot more potential for the
robot to like actually learn on the job,
acquire new skills. It's just like you
know it
>> because the human can label what's
happening
>> and also because the human can help the
can the human can give hints you know
let me tell you this story like um we um
when we were working on the uh pio5
project this was the paper that we
released uh last April we initially
controlled our robots with teleoperation
in a variety of different settings and
then at at some point we actually
realized that we can actually make
significant headway once the model was
good enough by supervising it not just
with low-level actions but actually
literally instructing it through
language.
>> Now, you need a certain level of
competence before you can do that. But
once you have that level of competence,
just standing there and telling the
robot, "Okay, now now pick up the cup,
put the cup in the sink, uh put the the
dish in the sink just with words." Yeah.
>> Already actually gives the robot
information that it can use to get
better.
>> Right?
>> Now, imagine what this implies for the
the human plus robot dynamic. Like now,
like basically learning is not for these
systems is not just learning from raw
actions. It's also learning from words
eventually be learning from observing
what people do from the kind of natural
feedback that you receive when you're
doing a job together with somebody else.
And uh this kind of this is also the
kind of stuff where that the prior
knowledge that comes from these big
models is tremendously valuable because
that lets you understand that that
interaction dynamic. So um I think that
there's a lot of potential for these
kind of human plus robot uh deployments
to make the model better.
>> Interesting. So, I got to go to Leo Box
and see the robotic setup and try
operating some of the robots myself.
>> So, the thing is like these triggers, be
very mindful of pressing them and don't
do some like very fast movements.
>> Keep it like kind of slow.
>> Do I need to keep holding it?
>> Sorry. Okay,
>> that's okay. And don't move it very fast
because he can get hurt actually.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
>> Okay. So, operating ended up being a bit
harder than I anticipated, but I did get
to see the label box team rip through a
bunch of tasks.
[Music]
I also got to see the output data that
labs actually have to use to train their
robots and ask Manu Label box CEO about
how all of this is packaged together. So
what you're looking at is actually the
final output that is then delivered to
the labs which then they use to train
the models. And so you can see on the
left the visualization of the movements
of the robot including its 3D model and
so forth. And on the right you see all
the camera streams synchronized with the
configuration. LiBBox can get you
millions of episodes of robotics data
for every single robotics platform and
subtask that you want to train on. And
if you reach out through
labelbox.com/workashe
manu will be very happy with me.
In terms of robotics progress, why won't
it be like self-driving cars where we,
you know, it's been more than 10 years
since Google launched its um wasn't it
2009 that they launched the self-driving
car initiative and then I remember when
I was a teenager like watching demos
where we would go buy a Taco Bell uh um
and drive back and only now do we have
them actually deployed and even then you
know they may make mistakes etc. And so
maybe it'll be many more years before
most of the cars are self-driving. So
why won't robotics, you know, you're
saying 5 years to this like quite robust
thing, but actually it'll just feel like
20 years of just like once we get the
cool demo in 5 years and it'll be
another 10 years before like we have the
way and the Tesla FSD working.
>> Yeah, that's a really good question. So
one of the big things that is different
now than it was in 2009 uh actually has
to do with the technology for machine
learning systems that understand the
world around them. Uh principally for
autonomous driving this is perception.
Uh for robots it can mean a few other
things as well. Uh and perception
certainly was not in a good place in
2009. The trouble with perception is
that it's one of those things where you
can nail a really good demo with a
somewhat engineered system, but hit a
brick wall when you try to generalize
it. Now, at this point in 2025, we have
much better technology for generalizable
and robust perception systems. And more
generally, generalizable and robust
systems for understanding the world
around us. Like when you say that the
system is scalable in machine learning,
scalable really means generalizable. Um,
so that gives us a much better starting
point uh today. So, that's not an
argument about robotics being easier
than autonomous driving. It's just an
argument for 2025 being a better year
than 2009.
>> But there's also other things about
robotics that are a bit different than
driving. Like, in some ways, robotic
manipulation is a much much harder
problem, but in other ways, it's a it's
a problem space where it's easier to get
rolling to start that flywheel with a
more limited scope. Um, so to give you
an example, if you're learning how to
drive, you would probably be pretty
crazy to learn how to drive on your own
without somebody helping you. Uh, like
you you would not trust your your your
teenage uh child to learn to drive just
on their own. Just drop them in the car
and say like, "Go for it." Uh, and
that's like a you know, a 16-year-old
who's had uh a significant amount of
time to learn about the world. You would
never even dream of putting a 5-year-old
in a car and telling him to get started.
But if you want somebody to like clean
the dishes, like dishes can break too,
but you would probably be okay with a
child trying to do the dishes uh without
somebody constantly like, you know,
sitting next to them with a with a with
a break, so to speak. So for a lot of
tasks that we want to do with robotic
manipulation, there's potential to make
mistakes and correct those mistakes. And
when you make a mistake and correct it,
well, first you you've achieved the task
because you've corrected, but you've
also gained knowledge that allows you to
avoid that mistake in the future. With
driving, because of the dynamics of how
it's set up, it's very hard to make a
mistake, correct it, and then learn from
it because the mistakes themselves have
significant ramifications. Um, now not
all manipulation tests are like that.
There are truly some like very uh safety
critical stuff. And this is where the
next thing comes in, which is common
sense. uh common sense meaning the
ability to make inferences about what
might happen uh that are reasonable
guesses but that do not require you to
experience that mistake and learn and
learn from it in advance that's
tremendously important and that's
something that we basically had no idea
how to do uh about 5 years ago but now
uh you we can actually use LLMs and VLMs
ask them questions and they will make
reasonable guesses like they will not
give you expert behavior but you can say
like hey there's a sign that says
slippery floor like what's going to
happen when I walk over that?
>> It's kind of pretty obvious, right? Uh
and no autonomous car in 2009 would have
been able to answer that question. So,
common sense plus the ability to make
mistakes and correct those mistakes.
Like, that's sounding like a off an
awful lot like what what a person does
when they're trying to learn something.
>> All of that doesn't make robotic
manipulation easy necessarily, but it
allows us to get started with a smaller
scope and then grow from there. So for
years
using I mean not since 2009 but we've
had lots of video data language data and
transformers for five seven eight years
>> and lots of companies have tried to
build transformer uh based robots with
lots of training data including Google
meta etc and what is the reason that
they've been hitting roadblocks what has
changed now
>> yeah that's a really good question so
I'll start out with uh maybe uh a slight
modification to your comment is I think
they they've made a lot of progress and
in some ways a lot of the work that
we're doing now at physical intelligence
is built on the backs of lots of other
great work that was done uh for example
at uh at Google like many of us were
actually at Google before we were
involved in some of that work some of it
is work that we're drawing on that
others did so there's definitely like
been a lot of progress there but um to
make robotic foundation models really
work it's not just a laboratory science
uh kind of experiment. It's also uh it
also requires kind of industrial scale
uh
building effort like it's it's like it's
more like the Apollo program than it is
like a science experiment and uh the
excellent research that was done in the
past in industrial research labs and I
know I was involved in much of that uh
was very much framed as a fundamental
research effort and that's good like the
fundamental research is really important
but it's not enough by itself. uh you
need the fundamental research and you
also need the impetus to make it real
and make it real means like actually put
the robots out there, get data that is
representative of the kind of tasks that
they want that they need to do in the
real world. Get that data at scale,
build out the systems, get all that
stuff right. Uh and that requires a
degree of focus uh a singular focus on
really nailing the robotic foundation
model for its own sake. Not uh just as a
way to do more science, not just as a
way to like publish a paper uh and not
just as a as a way to kind of like uh
you know have a a research lab.
>> What is preventing you now from continue
scaling that data even more? Um, if data
is a big bottleneck, why can't you just
increase the size of your uh office 100x
have 100x more operators were operating
these robots and collecting more data?
Yeah, why not ramp it up immediately
100x more?
>> Yeah, that's a really good question. So,
the challenge here is in understanding
which axes of scale contributes to which
axis of capability. Um, so if we wanted
to expand capability horizontally,
meaning like the robot knows how to do
10 things now and I'd like it to do 100
things later. Um, you know, that that
that can be addressed by just directly
horizontally scaling what we already
have. But we want to get robots to a
level of capability where they can do
practical practically useful things in
the real world. And that requires uh
expanding along other axes too. It
requires for example getting to very
high robustness. It requires getting
them to perform tasks very efficiently
quickly. uh it requires them to
recognize edge cases and respond
intelligently and those things I think
can also be addressed with scaling but
we have to identify the right axis for
that which means figuring out what kind
of data to collect what settings to
collect it in what kind of methods
consume that data how those methods work
right uh so answering those questions
more thoroughly will give us uh greater
clarity on the axes uh on the on those
uh dependent variables on the things
that we need to scale and we I don't
fully know right right now what that
will look like. I think we'll figure it
out pretty soon. It's something we're
working on actively, but we want to
really get that right so that when we do
scale it up, it'll directly translate
into capabilities that are very relevant
to practical use.
>> Just to give an order of magnitude, um
how does the amount of data we you have
collected compared to internet scale
pre-training data? And I know it's hard
to do like a token by token count
because
>> yeah, what exact how does video
information compare to internet
information, etc. But like
>> using your reasonable estimates at what
fraction of
>> that's right it's it's very hard to do
because um robotic experience uh
consists of time steps that are very
correlated with each other. Uh so like
the raw like bite representation is
enormous but probably the information
density is comparatively low.
>> Um maybe a better comparison is to um
the data sets that are used for uh for
multimodal training. Yeah. And there
it's uh I believe last time we did that
count it was like between one and two
orders of magnitude.
>> The vision you have of uh robotics will
not be possible until you collect like
what 100x 1,000x more data.
>> Well that's the thing that that we don't
know that um uh it's certainly very
reasonable to infer that like you know
robotics is a tough problem uh and
probably it requires you know as much
experience as the language stuff. But
because we don't know the answer to
that, to me, a much more useful way to
think about it is not
how much data do we need to get before
we're fully done, but how much data do
we need to get before we can get
started, meaning before we can get uh a
data flywheel that represents a self-
sustaining uh and ever growing data
collection.
>> Sustaining uh is this just like learning
on the job or do you have something else
in mind? learning on the job or uh
acquiring data in a way that the process
of acquisition of that data itself is
useful and valuable.
>> I see like just some kind of RL
>> like doing something like actually real.
>> Yeah. I mean ideally I would like it to
be RL because you can get away with the
robot acting autonomously,
>> right?
>> Which is uh easier.
>> But that's it's not out of the question
that you can have next autonomy. Uh you
can you know as I mentioned before
robots can learn from all sorts of other
signals. Uh I described how we can have
a robot that learns from a person
talking to it. So there there's a lot of
middle ground in between fully
teleoperated robots and fully autonomous
robots.
>> Yeah. Okay. And how does the PI model
work?
>> Yeah. So the current model that we have
uh basically is a vision language model
that has been adapted for motor control.
So uh to give you a little bit of like a
fanciful brain analogy, a VLM, a vision
language model is basically an LLM that
has had a a little like pseudo visual
cortex grafted to it, a vision encoder,
right? So our models, they have a vision
encoder, but they also have an action
expert, an action uh decoder
essentially. So it has like a little
visual cortex and notionally a little
motor cortex. And the way that the model
actually makes decisions is it reads in
the sensory information from the robot.
It does some internal processing and
that could involve actually uh
outputting intermediate steps like you
might tell it clean up the kitchen and
it might think to itself like hey to
clean up the kitchen I need to pick up
the dish and I need to pick up the
sponge and I need to put this and this
and then eventually it works its way
through that chain of thought generation
down to the action expert which actually
produces continuous actions and that
that has to be a different module
because the actions are continuous
they're high frequency so they have have
a different data format than uh text
tokens but structurally it's an end to
end transformer and roughly speaking
technically it corresponds to a kind of
mixture of experts architecture
>> and like what is actually happening is
that it's like it's like predicting I
should do x thing then it's like there's
an image token then some action tokens
like what it actually ends up doing and
then more image more uh text description
more more action tokens basically if I'm
like looking at what what stream is
going on
>> that that's right uh with the with the
exception that the actions are actually
not represented as discrete tokens it's
it actually uses a flow matching kind
diffusion because they're continuous and
you need to be very precise with your
actions for dextrous control.
>> I find it super interesting that so you
are I think you're using the open-
source Gemma model which is like
Google's uh LLM uh that the release open
source and then adding the section
expert on top. And I find it super
interesting that the progress in
different areas of AI is just based on
this not only the same techniques but
literally the same model that you can
just use an open source LLM and then add
this action expert on top. It is just
notable that like you naively might
think that oh there's like separate era
of researchers robotics and there's a
separate area of research called LLMs
and uh natural language processing and
no it's like it's literally the same.
It's like the considerations are the
same. the um the architectures are the
same, even the weights are the same. I
know you do more training on top of
these model, open source models, but
that I find super interesting.
>> Yeah. So, one theme here that like I
think is important to keep in mind is
that the reason that those building
blocks are so valuable is because the AI
community has gotten a lot better at
leveraging prior knowledge.
>> And a lot of what we're getting from the
pre-trained LLMs and VLMs is prior
knowledge about the world. And it's kind
of like it's a little bit abstracted
knowledge. It like you know you can
identify objects, you can figure out
like you know roughly where things are
in image that sort of thing. But I think
if if I had to like summarize in one
sentence the big benefit that recent
innovations in AI give to robotics, it's
really that prior the ability to
leverage prior knowledge. And uh I think
the fact that the model is the same
model that's like that's kind of always
been the case in deep learning. But it's
that ability to pull in that prior
knowledge that abstracted knowledge that
has that can come from many different
sources that's really powerful.
>> Yeah. Today I'm here with Mark who is a
senior researcher at Hudson River
Trading. He has prepared for us a big
data set of market prices and historical
market data and we're going to try to
figure out what's going on and whether
we can predict future prices from
historical market data. Mark, let's dig
in.
>> Happy to do it. So it sounds like the
first fun thing to do is probably to
start looking at what an order book
actually looks like.
>> Yeah, I think so. So I've given you like
real order book data. That is snapshots
of the top five levels of the order book
both on the bid and ass side for a
couple of different tech stocks Nvidia,
Tesla, AMD etc.
>> What is the shape of the prediction? Are
we predicting
>> what you uh take the data frame look at
its y values and just kind of like
histogram it?
>> They are centered at zero.
>> They're roughly centered at zero. But
target of what exactly?
>> So these things are changes in the mid
price from like now to some short period
of time in the future.
>> This is actually quite interesting. It's
like a mystery to solve. And each one of
these can be like a sizable chunk of
time for a a researcher.
>> If this sounds interesting to you, you
should consider working at Hudson River
Trading. Mark, where can people learn
more?
>> Uh, they can learn more at
hudson-trading.com/dorc.
>> Amazing. I was talking to um this
researcher uh uh Sander at GDM and he he
works on video and audio models and he
made the interesting point that the
reason in his view we aren't seeing that
much transfer learning between different
modalities that is to say like training
a language model on video and images
doesn't seem to necessarily make it that
much better at textual questions and um
tasks is that images are represented at
a semantic level than text. And so his
argument is that text has this high
level semantic representation within the
model. Whereas images and videos are
just like compressed pixels. There's not
really semantic
>> uh when they're embedded. There's not
they're they don't represent some like
high level semantic information. They're
just like compressed pixels. Um and
therefore there's there's no transfer
learning at the level at which they're
going through the model. And obviously
this is super relevant to the work
you're doing because your hope is that
by training the model both on the visual
data that the robot sees visual data
generally maybe even in like from
YouTube or whatever eventually plus like
language information plus action
information from the robot itself. Some
that all of this together will like make
it generally robust. Um and then you had
a really interesting blog post about
like why video models aren't as robust
as language models. Um sorry this is not
a super wellformed question. And I just
wanted to do your reaction
>> like what's up with that?
>> Um
>> yeah, so I I have uh maybe two things I
can say there. I have some like bad news
and some good news.
>> So the bad news is what you're saying is
really getting at the core of a
longunning challenge with
video and and image generation models.
Like in some ways the idea of getting
intelligent systems by predicting video
is even older than the idea of getting
intelligent systems by predicting text.
But the text stuff turned into use
practically useful things earlier than
the video stuff did. I mean the video
stuff is great like you can generate
cool videos and I think that the work
there that's been done recently is is
like amazing but it's not but it's not
like just generating videos and images
has already resulted in systems that
have this kind of like deep
understanding of the world where you can
like ask them to like do stuff beyond
just generating more images and videos
whereas with language clearly it has and
I think that this this point about
representations is really key to it. One
way we can think about it is this that
um if you um imagine pointing a camera
outside this building, there's the sky,
there's the clouds are moving around, uh
the water, cars driving around, people.
If you want to predict everything that
will happen in the future, you can do so
in many different ways. You can say,
okay, there's people around, so let me
get really good at understanding like
the psychology of how people behave in
crowds and predict the pedestrians. But
you could also say like, well, there's
clouds moving around. Let me like
understand everything about water
molecules and uh ice particles in the
air. And you could go super deep on
that. Like if you want to like fully
understand like all you know down to the
subatomic level everything that's going
on like as a person you could spend like
decades just thinking about that and
you'll never even get to the pedestrians
or the water, right? So if you want to
really predict everything that's going
on in that scene, there's just so much
stuff that even if you're doing a really
great job and capturing like 100% of
something, by the time you get to
everything else, like you know, ages
will have passed. Whereas with text,
it's already sort of been abstract into
those bits that we as humans care about.
So the representations are already there
and they're not just good
representations. They actually like
focus in on what really matters. Okay.
So that's that's the bad news. Here's
the good news. The good news is that we
don't have to just get everything out of
like pointing a camera outside this
building because when you have a robot,
that robot is actually trying to do a
job. So it has
uh a purpose.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh and its perception is in service to
fulfilling that purpose. And that is
like a really great uh focusing factor.
We know that for people this really
matters. Like literally what you see is
affected by what you're trying to do. Uh
like there's been no shortage of
psychology experiments showing that
people have like almost a shocking
degree of tunnel vision. Uh where they
will like literally not see things right
in front of their eyes if it's not
relevant to what they're trying to
achieve. And that is tremendously
powerful. Like there must be a reason
why people do that because you know
certainly if you're out in the jungle
seeing more is better than seeing less.
So if you have that powerful focusing
mechanism it must be darn important for
getting you to achieve your goal. And I
think robots will have that focusing
mechanism because they're trying to
achieve a goal.
>> By the way, the fact that video models
aren't as robust, is that bearish for
robotics because it will so so much of
the data you will have to use will not
be I guess some of you're saying a lot
of it will be labeled, but like ideally
you just want to be able to like throw
all of everything on YouTube, every
video we've ever recorded and have it
learn how the physical world works and
how to like move about, etc. or just see
humans performing tasks and learn from
that. But if Yeah, I guess you're saying
like it's hard to learn just from that
and it actually like needs to practice a
task itself.
>> Well, let me put it this way. Like let's
say that I um gave you lots of uh
videotapes or lots of recordings of
different sporting events and gave you a
year to just watch sports.
>> Uh and then after that year I told you,
okay, now your job you're going to be
playing tennis.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. That's like that's pretty pretty
dumb, right? Whereas if I told you first
like you're gonna be playing tennis and
then I and then I let you study up,
right? Like now you you really know what
you're looking for, right? So I think
that actually
>> like there's there's a very real
challenge here. I don't want to
understate the challenge, but I do think
that there's also a lot of potential for
foundation models that are embodied that
uh learn from interaction from
controlling robotic systems to actually
be better at absorbing the other data
sources because they know what they're
trying to do. Uh I don't think that that
by itself is like a silver bullet. I
don't think it solves everything. But I
think that uh it does help a lot and I
think that we've already seen the
beginnings of that where we can see that
uh including web data in training for
robots really does help uh with
generalization and I I actually have the
suspicion that in the long run it'll
make it easier to use those sources of
data that have been tricky to use up
until now.
Famously LMs have all these immersion
capabilities that were never engineered
in because somewhere in internet text is
the data to train it to give it the
knowledge to do a certain kind of thing.
With robots it seems like you are
collecting all the data manually. So
there won't be this mysterious new
capability that like is somewhere in the
data set that you haven't purposefully
collected which seems like it should
make it even harder to then have
uh robust out of distribution kind of uh
capabilities. And so I wonder if the
trek over the next 5 10 years will just
be like each subtask you have to give it
thousands of episodes and then it's very
hard to actually automate much work just
by doing subtasks. So if you think about
what a barista does, what a waiter does,
um what a chef does. Um very little of
it involves just like sitting at one
station and like doing stuff right. It's
like you got to move around, you got to
restock, you got to um fix the machine
or um etc. um go between like the
counter and the cashier and the machine
etc. So yeah, will it just be like will
there just be this long tail of things
that you had to keep skills you had to
keep like adding episodes for manually
and labeling and seeing how well they
did etc or is there some reason to think
that it will progress
more generally than that?
>> Yeah. So there's a subtlety here.
Emerging capabilities don't just come
from the fact that internet data has a
lot of stuff in it. They also come from
the fact that generalization once it
reaches a certain level becomes
compositional.
>> There was a a cute example that uh one
of my students uh really like to use uh
in some of his presentations which is um
uh you know what international phonetic
alphabet is? No. APA. So if you look in
a dictionary uh they'll have the
pronunciation of a word and written in
like kind of funny letters. So that's
basically international phonetic
alphabet. So it's it's an alphabet that
is pretty much exclusively used for
writing down pronunciations of
individual words in dictionaries.
>> And you can ask an LLM to write you a
recipe uh for like making some meal in
international phonetic alphabet and it
will do it. And that's like like holy
crap. Like that is definitely not
something that is that it has ever seen
because IPA is only ever used for
writing down pronunciations of
individual words. So that's that's
that's compositional generalization.
It's putting together things you've seen
like that in new ways. And it's like,
you know, arguably there's nothing like
profoundly new here because like yes,
you've seen different words written that
way, but you've figured out that now you
can compose the words in this other
language the same way that you've
composed words uh in English. So um
that's actually where the emerging
capabilities come from. And
because of this in principle if we have
a sufficient diversity of behaviors the
model should figure out that those
behaviors can be composed in new ways uh
as the the situation calls for it. And
we've actually seen things even with our
current models which you know I should
say that I think there in the grand
scheme of things like looking back 5
years from now we'll probably think that
these are tiny in scale but we've
already seen what I would call emerging
capabilities. When we were playing
around with some of our laundry folding
policies actually we discovered this by
accident. Uh, the robot accidentally
picked up two t-shirts out of the bin
instead of one, starts folding the first
one, the other one gets in the way,
picks up the other one, throws it back
in the bin,
>> and we're like, we we didn't know. We
didn't know it would do that. Like, holy
crap. And then we try to play around
with it, and it's like, yep, it does
that every time. Like, you can drop in,
you know, it's it's doing its work,
drops something else on the table, just
pick it up, put it back,
>> right? Okay, that's cool. Uh, shopping
bag. It starts putting things in the
shopping bag, the shopping bag tips
over, picks it back back up, and stands
it up, right? We didn't we didn't tell
anybody to collect data for that. I'm
sure somebody accidentally at some point
or maybe intentionally picked up the
shopping bag, but it's just you have
this kind of compositionality that
emerges when you do learning at scale
and that's really uh where all these
remarkable capabilities come from. And
now you put that together with language,
you put that together with uh all sorts
of chain of thought reasoning and
there's a lot of potential for the model
to compose things in new ways,
>> right? I had an example like this when I
got a tour of the um robots by the way
at your um office. So, it was folding
shorts and I don't know if there was an
episode like this in the um in the
training set, but just for fun, I like
took one of the shorts and like uh
turned it inside out.
>> Mhm.
>> And then it was able to understand that
it first needed to get so first of all
the grippers are just like like this
like two two limbs or just a pososeable
finger and thumb like thing. And um it's
actually shocking how much you can do
with just that. Yeah, I'd understood
that I first needed to fold it inside
out before folding it correctly. I mean,
what's especially surprising about that
is it seems like this model only has
like one second of context. So, as
compared to these language models which
can often like see the entire codebase
and they're like observing hundreds of
thousands of tokens and thinking about
them before outputting and they're
observing their own train of thought for
thousands of tokens before making a plan
about how to code something up. your
model is like seeing one image of like
what happened in the last second and it
vaguely knows like it's supposed to fold
this short
>> um and it's seeing like the image of
what's happened the last second and I
guess it works. It's like crazy that it
like know it will just see the last
thing that happened and then keep
executing on the plan. So fold it inside
out then fold it correctly. But it's
shocking that a second of context is
enough to execute on a minute long task.
Yeah. I'm curious why you made that
choice in the first place and why it's
possible to actually do tasks if a human
could only like think I had like a
second of memory
>> and had to like do physical work. I feel
like that would just be impossible.
>> Yeah. I mean it's not that there's
something good about having less memory
to be clear. Like I think that uh adding
memory, adding longer context, all that
stuff, adding higher resolution images,
I think those things will make the model
better. But the reason why it's not the
most important thing for the kind of
skills that you saw when you visited us,
it at some level I think it comes back
to Moravik's paradox. So Morovik's
paradox is basically that it's like you
know if you know one thing about if you
want to know one thing about robotics
it's like that's that's the thing.
Morovik's paradox says that basically uh
in AI the easy things are hard and the
hard things are easy. Meaning like the
things that we take for granted like
picking up objects, seeing you know
perceiving the world, all that stuff,
those are all the hard problems in AI.
And the things that we find challenging
like playing chess and doing calculus
actually are often the easier problems.
>> And I think this memory stuff is
actually more of a paradox in disguise
where we think that the cognitively
demanding tasks that we do that we find
hard that kind of cause us to think
like, "Oh man, I'm sweating. I'm working
so hard." Those are the ones that
require us to keep lots of stuff in
memory, lots of stuff in our minds. Like
if you're solving some big math problem,
if you're having a a complicated
technical conversation on a podcast,
like those are things we have to keep
all those pieces, all those puzzle
pieces in your head.
>> If you're doing a well- rehearsed task,
if you are an Olympic swimmer and you're
swimming with perfect form and you're
like right there in the zone, like
people even say like it's in the moment.
>> It's in the moment, right?
you've practiced it so much you've baked
it into your neural network,
right? So, it really is just Morix
Morovix's paradox manifesting itself.
But that doesn't mean that we don't need
the memory. It just means that if we
want to match the level of dexterity and
physical proficiency that people have,
there's other things we should get right
first and then gradually go up that
stack into the more cognitively
demanding areas, into reasoning, into
context, into planning, all that kind of
stuff. And that stuff will be important
too.
>> And how physically will So you have you
have this like trillemma. You have three
different things which all take more
compute during inference that you want
opt you want to increase at the same
time. You have the inference speed and
so humans are processing 24 frames a
second or whatever it is that we're just
like we can react to things extremely
fast. Then you have the context length
and for I think the kind of robot which
is just like cleaning up your house. I
think it has to kind it has to be aware
of like things that happened minutes ago
or hours ago and how that influences its
plan about the next task it's doing and
then you have the model size and I guess
at least with LLMs we've seen that
there's gains from increasing the amount
of uh parameters and I think currently
you have 100 millisecond uh inference
speeds you have a second long context
and then the model is what couple
billion parameters how many okay and so
each of these At
least two of them are many orders of
magnitude smaller than what seems to be
the human equivalent, right? Like the
model if a human brain has like
trillions of parameters and this has
like two billion parameters and then if
humans are processing at least as fast
as this model like actually a decent bit
faster and we have hours of context. It
depends on how you define human context
but hours of context, minutes of
context,
>> sometimes decades of context.
>> Yeah, exactly. So you have to have many
order of magnitude improvements across
all of this all of these three things
which seem to oppose each other or like
increasing one reduces the amount of um
reduces the amount of compute we can
dedicate towards the other one in
inference. So how are we going to yeah
how are we going to solve this?
>> Yeah well that's a very big question. Um
yeah let's let's try to unpack this a
little bit. I think there's there's a
lot going on in there. One thing that um
I would say is a really interesting
technical problem and I think that's
it's something where we'll see perhaps a
lot of really interesting innovation
over the next few years is the question
of representation for context. M
>> so um if you imagine the like some
examples you gave like if if you have a
home robot that's doing something it
needs to keep track as a person there's
certainly some things where you keep
track of them very symbolically like
almost in language like you know I I
have my checklist like I'm going
shopping and I you know at least for me
I can like literally visualize in my
mind like my checklist like you know
pick up the the yogurt pick up the milk
pick up whatever and and I'm not like
picturing the milk shelf with the milk
sitting there I'm just thinking like
milk, right? But then there's other
things that are much more spatial,
almost visual. Uh, you know, when I was
uh trying to get to your to your studio,
I was thinking like, okay, uh, here's
the what this street looks like. Here's
what that street looks like. Here's, you
know, what I expect the doorway to look
like. So,
>> representing your context in the right
form that captures what you really need
to achieve, uh, your goal, uh, and
otherwise kind of discards all the
unnecessary stuff. I think that that's
like that's a really important thing.
And I think we're seeing the beginnings
of that with multimodal models. But I
think that multimodality has so much
more to it than just like image plus
text. And I think that that's a place
where there's a lot of room for really
exciting innovation.
>> Oo. Do you mean in terms of um how we
represent
>> Mhm.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. How we represent both context,
both what happened in the past and also
plans or reasoning as you can call it in
LM world. Uh which is what we would like
to happen in the future or intermediate
processing stages in solving a task. I
think do doing that in a variety of
modalities including potentially learn
modalities that are suitable for the job
is something that has I think enormous
potential uh to overcome some of these
challenges.
>> Interesting. Another question I have as
we're as we're discussing these like um
tough tradeoffs in terms of um uh
inference is comparing it to the human
brain and figuring out the human brain
is able to have hours decades of context
while being like being able to act on
the order of 10 milliseconds while
having 100 trillion parameters or
however you want to count it. And I
wonder if the best way to understand
what's happening here is that human
brain hardware is just way more advanced
than the hardware we have in GPUs or
that the algorithms for encoding video
information are like way more efficient
>> uh and maybe it's like some crazy
mixture of experts where
>> the active parameters is also on the
order of billions billions or some
mixture of the two basically If you had
to think about like why do we have these
models that are across many dimensions
orders of magnitude less efficient is it
hardware or algorithms than compared to
the brain?
>> Yeah, that's a really good question.
So I definitely don't know the answer to
this. Uh I I am not by any means well
verssed in in neuroscience, but if I had
to guess and also provide an answer that
leans more on things I know, it's
something like this that the brain is
extremely parallel. uh it kind of has to
be just out of just because of the
biohysics. U but like it's even more
parallel than your GPU.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh if you think about how a modern
multimodal language model processes uh
the input uh if you give it some images
and some text like first it reads in the
images then it reads in the text and and
then proceeds uh one token at a time to
generate the output.
It makes a lot more sense to me for an
embodied system to have parallel uh
processes. Now mathematically you can
actually make close equivalences between
uh parallel and sequential stuff like
transformers aren't actually
fundamentally sequential like you kind
of make them sequential by putting in
position embeddings. Transformers are
fundamentally actually very paralyzable
things. That's what makes them so great.
So I don't think that actually
mathematically this this like highly
parallel thing where you're doing
perception and proprioception and
planning all at the same time is
actually actually necessarily needs to
look that different from a transformer
although its practical implementation
will be different and you could imagine
that the system will in parallel think
about uh okay here's like my long-term
memory like here's what I've seen you
know a decade ago here's my short-term
kind of spatial stuff here's my semantic
stuff uh here's what I'm seeing now
here's what I'm planning and all of that
can be implemented in a that there's
some, you know, very familiar kind of
attentional mechanism, but in practice,
all all running in parallel, maybe at
different rates, maybe with a more
complex things running slower, the
faster reactive stuff running faster.
>> I'm sure you've been seeing a bunch of
fun images that people have been
generating with Google's new image
generation model, Nano Banana. My X feed
is full of wild images. But you might
not realize that this model can also
help you do less flashy tasks like
restoring historical pictures or even
just cleaning up images. For example, I
was reading this old paperback as I was
prepping to interview Sarah Payne, and
it had this really great graph of World
War II allied shipping that I wanted to
overlay in the lecture. Now, in the
past, this would have taken one of my
editors 20 or 30 minutes to digitize and
clean up manually. But now, we just took
a photo of the page and then dropped
into into Nano Banana and got back a
clean version. This was a one shot, but
if Nano Manana doesn't nail it on the
first attempt, you can try to just go
back and forth with it until you get a
result that you're super happy with. We
keep finding new use cases for this
model. And honestly, this is one of
those tools that just doesn't feel real.
Check out Gemini 2.5 flash image model,
aka Nanobanana, on both Google AI Studio
and the Gemini app. All right, back to
Sergey. If in 5 years we have a system
which is like as robust as a human in
terms of interacting with the world,
then what what what has happened that
makes it physically possible to be able
to run those kinds of models? um to have
video information that is streaming at
real time or hours of prior video
information is somehow being encoded and
considered while decoding in like a
millisecond scale and with many more
parameters. Uh is it just that like
Nvidia has shipped much better GPUs or
that you guys have come up with much
better like uh encoders and stuff or
like what's happened in the 5 years? I
>> I I think there's there are a lot of
things to this question. I think
certainly there's like a really
fascinating systems problem. Um I'm by
no means a systems expert, but I would
imagine that the right architecture in
practice, especially if you want an
affordable lowcost system, would be to
externalize at least part of the
thinking. Yeah. Uh you know, you could
imagine maybe in the future you'll have
a robot that has like uh you know, if
your internet connection is not very
good. The robot is in kind of like a
dumber reactive mode, but if you have a
good internet connection, then it can
like be a little smarter. That's pretty
cool. Um but I think there is there are
also research and algorithms things that
can help here. um like uh figuring out
the right representations concisely
representing both uh your past
observations but also changes in
observation right like you know your
sensory stream is extremely temporally
correlated which means that the marginal
information gained from each additional
observation is not the same as the
entirety of that observation because the
image that I'm seeing now is very
correlated to the image I saw before. So
in principle if I want to represent it
concisely I can get away with a much
more compressed representation than if I
represent the images independently. So
there's a lot that can be done on the
algorithm side to get this right and
that's really interesting algorithms
work. I think there's also like a really
fascinating systems problem. Uh to be
truthful like I haven't gotten to the
systems problem because you know you
want to implement the system once you
sort of know the shape of the of the
machine learning uh solution but I think
there's a lot of cool stuff to do there.
>> Yeah maybe you guys just need to hire
like the people run the YouTube data
centers because like they know how to
like encode video information. Um uh
okay this actually raises an interesting
question which is that with LLMs of
course they're being theoretically you
could run your own model on this laptop
or whatever but realistically what
happens is that the largest most
effective models are being run in
batches um of thousands millions of
users at the same time uh not locally.
Well, the same thing happened in
robotics because of the inherent
efficiencies of batching plus the fact
that we have to do this incredibly
computer uh comput inensive inference
task. Um, and so you don't want to be
carrying around like uh you know like
$50,000 GPUs per robot or something. You
you just want that to happen somewhere
else. Um, so yeah, should this robotics
world should we just be anticipating
something where you need connectivity
everywhere? you need robots that are
like have like super fast um and you're
streaming video information back and
forth, right? Or at least video
information one way. So, does that have
interesting implications about like how
this um how this deployment of robots
will actually be instantiated?
>> I I don't know. Uh but if I were to
guess, I would guess that it'll we'll
actually see both that we'll see lowcost
systems with uh offboard inference and
uh more reliable systems for example in
settings where like if you have an
outdoor robot or uh something where you
can't rely on connectivity that are
costlier and have onboard inference.
>> Um a few things I'll say from a
technical standpoint that might
contribute to understanding this.
While a real time system obviously needs
to be controlled in real time, often at
high frequency, the amount of thinking
you actually need to do for every time
step might be surprisingly low. Uh and
again, we we see this in humans and
animals. Uh when we
>> plan out movements,
>> there is definitely a a real planning
process that happens in the brain. Like
if you record like uh from a from a
monkey brain, you will actually find
neural coralates of planning. And there
is something that happens in advance of
a movement and when that movement
actually takes place the shape of the
movement correlates with what happened
before the movement like that's planning
right. Uh so that means that you put
something in place and you know set the
initial conditions of some kind of
process and then unroll that process and
that's the movement and that means that
during that movement you're doing less
processing uh and you kind of batch it
up in advance
>> but you're you're not like entirely in
open loop. It's not like playing you're
playing back a tape recorder. You are
actually reacting as you go. you're just
reacting at a different level of
abstraction, a more basic level of
abstraction. And again, this comes back
to representations. Figure out which
representations are sufficient for kind
of planning in advance and then
unrolling. Which representations require
a tight feedback loop? And for that
tight feedback loop, like what what are
you doing feedback on? Like, you know,
if I'm driving a vehicle, maybe I'm
doing feedback on the position of the
lane marker so that I stay straight. And
then at a lower frequency, I sort of
gauge where I am in traffic. And then so
you have a couple lectures from a few
years back where you say like even for
robotics our role is in many cases
better than imitation learning but so
far the models are exclusively doing
imitation learning. So I'm curious how
your how your thinking on this has
changed or maybe it's not changed but
then you need to do this for the RL like
why why can't you enter to do RL yet?
>> Yeah. So the key here is prior
knowledge. Yeah. Uh so in order to
effectively learn from your own
experience, it turns out that it's
really really important to already know
something about what you're doing.
Otherwise, it takes far too long. Uh
it's just like it it takes uh a person
when they're a child a very long time to
learn very basic things, to learn to
write for the first time, for example.
Once you already have some knowledge,
then you can learn new things very
quickly. So the purpose of
training the models with supervised
learning now is to build out that
foundation that provides the prior
knowledge so they can figure things out
much more quickly later. And again this
is not a new idea. This is exactly what
we've seen with uh LLMs, right? LLM
started off uh being trained purely with
next token prediction and that provided
an excellent starting point first for
all sorts of synthetic data generation
and then uh for RL. M so I I think it
makes total sense that we would expect
basically any foundation model effort to
follow that same trajectory where we
first build out the foundation
essentially in like a somewhat brute
force way and the stronger that
foundation gets the easier it is to then
make it even better with much more
accessible training
>> in um in 10 years will the best model
for knowledge work also be a robotics
model or have like a action expert
attached to it and the reason I ask is
like
>> so far we've seen advantages from using
more general models for things
>> and will robotics fall into this bucket
of we will just have the model which
does everything including physical work
and knowledge work or do you think
they'll continue to stay separate?
>> I really hope that they will actually be
the same and um you know obviously I'm
extremely biased. I I love robotics. I
think it's like it's very fundamental to
AI. I think that it's optimistically
that it's actually the other way around
that the robotics
uh element of the equation will make all
the other stuff better. And there are
two uh reasons for this that that I
could tell you about. One has to do with
representations and focus. So what I
said before with uh video prediction
models, if you just want to predict
everything that happens, it's very hard
to figure out what's relevant. Yeah. If
you have the focus that comes from
actually trying to do a task now that
acts to structure how you see the world
in a way that uh allows you to more
fruitfully utilize the other signals
that could be extremely powerful.
>> Yeah.
>> The second one is that understanding the
physical world at at a very deep
fundamental level at a level that goes
beyond just what we can articulate with
language can actually help you solve
other problems. M and we we see we we
experience this all the time like when
we talk about abstract concepts we say
like this company has a lot of momentum
>> right I I like you we'll use like social
metaphors to describe inanimate objects
like my computer hates me right like we
experience the world in a particular way
and our subjective experience shapes how
we think about it in very profound ways
and then we you use that as a hammer to
basically hit all sorts of other nails
that are far too abstract uh to handle
any other way
>> I guess but there there may be other
considerations that are relevant to uh
physical robots in terms of like
inference speed and model size etc which
might be different than the
considerations for knowledge work but
then maybe you can maybe that doesn't
change maybe it's still the same model
but then you can serve it in different
ways and the advantages of co-raining
are high enough that
yeah whenever I'm like I'm wondering in
five years if I'm using a model to code
for me does it also know how to do
robotic stuff and yeah maybe the
advantages of code running on robotics
are high enough that it's worth
>> Mhm. Well, and I should say that the the
coding is probably like the pinnacle of
a of uh abstract knowledge work in the
sense that like just by by the by the
mathematical nature of computer
programming, it's an extremely abstract
activity which is why people struggle
with it so much.
>> Yeah, I'm a bit confused about why
simulation doesn't work better for uh
robots. Like if I look at humans, smart
humans do a good job of
>> if they're intentionally trying to
learn, noticing what about the
simulation is similar to real life and
paying attention to that and learning
from that. So if you have like pilots
who are learning in simulation or F1
drivers who are learning in simulation,
should it be expected to be a case that
as robots get smarter, they will also be
able to learn more things through
simulation or uh or is this cursed and
we need real world data wherever?
>> This is a very subtle question. Um, your
example with a airplane pilot using
simulation is really interesting, but
something to remember is that when a
pilot is using a simulator to learn to
fly an airplane, they're extremely goal-
directed. So, their goal in life is not
to learn to use a simulator. Their goal
in life is to learn to fly the airplane.
They know there will be a test
afterwards, and they know that
eventually they'll be in charge of like
a few hundred passengers, and they
really need to not crash that thing. Um,
and when we train um, models on data
from multiple different domains, the
models don't know that they're supposed
to solve a particular task. They just
see like, hey, here's one thing I need
to master. Here's another thing I need
to master. So maybe like a better
analogy there is if you if you're like
playing a video game where you can fly
an airplane and then eventually someone
puts you in the cockpit of a real of a
real one. Like it's not that the video
game is useless, but it's it's not the
same thing. And if you're trying to play
that video game and your goal is to like
really like master the video game, um
you're not going to go about it in quite
the same way.
>> Isn't um can you do some kind of meta RL
on this, which is like almost identical
actually to the there's this really
interesting paper you wrote in 2017
where maybe the loss function is not how
well it does at a particular video game
or particular simulation, but how well
being trained at different video games
makes it better at some other downstream
task. I I did a terrible job explaining,
but I understand what you mean. Yeah.
Yeah. Maybe can you do a better job
explaining what I what I was trying to
say?
>> So So I think what you're trying to say
is basically that uh well maybe if we
have like a really smart model that's
doing metal learning, perhaps it can
figure out that its performance on a
downstream problem, a real world problem
is increased by doing something in a
simulator
>> and then specifically make that the loss
function. Right.
>> That's right. But here's the thing with
with with this. There's a set of these
ideas that are all going to be like
something like train to make it better
on the real thing by leveraging
something else. Yeah. And the key
lynchpin for all of that is the ability
to train it to be better on the real
thing.
>> Um the thing is like I actually suspect
in reality we might not even need to do
something quite so explicit because
metalarning is emergent as you pointed
out before right like uh LLMs
essentially do a kind of metal learning
via in context learning. I mean we can
debate as to how much that's learning or
not but the point is that large powerful
models trained on the right objective on
real data get much better at leveraging
all the other stuff and I think that's
actually the key and coming back to your
uh airplane pilot like the airplane
pilot is trained on a real world
objective like their objective is to be
a good airplane pilot to be successful
to have a good career and all of that
kind of propagates back into the actions
they take and leveraging all these other
data sources so what I think is actually
the key here to leveraging auxiliary
data sources including simul
is to build the right foundation model
that is really good that has those
emergent abilities.
>> And to your point uh to get really good
like that it has to have the right
objective. Uh now we know how to get the
right objective out of real world data.
Maybe we can get out of other things but
that's that's harder right now
>> right
>> and I think that again we can look to
the examples of what happened in other
fields like these days if someone trains
an LLM for solving complex problems
they're using lots of synthetic data.
Mhm.
>> But the reason they're able to leverage
that synthetic data effectively is
because they have this starting point
that is trained on lots of real data
that kind of gets it and once it gets it
then it's more able to leverage all this
other stuff
>> right
>> so uh I think like perhaps ironically
the key to leveraging other data sources
including simulation is to get really
good at using real data understand
what's up with the world and then now
you now you can fruitfully use
>> so once we have this like um in 2035
2030 what basically the sci-fi world uh
are Are you optimistic about the ability
like true AGIs to build simulations in
which they are rehearsing skills that no
human or AI has ever had a chance to
practice before? Um some you know they
need to like practice via astronauts
because we're building the Dyson sphere
and they can just do that in simulation
or like will the issue with simulation
continue to be one regardless of how
smart the models get? So here's what I
would say that deep down at a very
fundamental level the synthetic
experience that you create yourself
doesn't allow you to learn more about
the world. It allows you to rehearse
things. It allows you to consider
counterfactuals but somehow
information about the world needs to get
injected into the system. So um and I
think the way you pose this question
actually elucidates this very nicely
because in robotics classically people
have often thought about simulation as a
way to inject human knowledge because a
person knows how to write down like
differential equations they can code it
up and that like gives the robot more
knowledge than had before but I think
that increasingly what we're learning
from uh experiences in other fields from
uh how like the video generation stuff
goes from synthetic data for LLMs is
that actually probably the most powerful
way to create synthetic experience is
from a really good model uh because you
know the model probably knows more than
a person does about those fine grain
details but then of course where does
that model get the knowledge from
experiencing the world. Yeah. So in a
sense what you said uh I think is
actually quite right in that a very
powerful AI system can simulate a lot of
stuff but also at that point it kind of
almost doesn't matter because viewed as
a black box what's going on with that
system is that information comes in and
capability comes out and whether the way
process that information is by imagining
some stuff and simulating or by some
model free method uh is kind of
irrelevant in understanding it
>> capability sense of what what the
equivalent is in humans like whatever
we're doing when we're daydreaming or
sleeping thing or um I don't know if you
have some sense of like what this
auxiliary thing we're doing is but if
you had to make an ML analogy for it,
what is it?
>> Well, uh yeah, I mean certainly when uh
uh when you sleep, your brain does stuff
that looks an awful lot like what it
does when it's awake. Uh that looks an
awful lot like playing back experience
or perhaps generating new statistically
similar experience. Um, and so I think
it's like it's very reasonable to guess
that perhaps simulation through a
learned model is like part of how your
brain figures out like counterfactuals
basically. Yeah.
>> But um something that's kind of even
more fundamental than that is that
optimal decision-m at its core
regardless of how you do it requires
considering counterfactuals. You
basically have to ask yourself if I did
this instead of that would it be better?
And you have to answer that question
somehow. And whether you answer that
question by using a learn simulator or
whether you you answer that question by
using a value function uh or something
like that by using a reward model in the
end it's kind of all the same like as
long as you have some mechanism for
considering counterfactuals and figuring
out which counterfactual is better
you've got it. Yeah.
>> Uh so that that I I like thinking about
it this way because it kind of
simplifies things. It tells us that the
key is not necessarily to do really good
simulation. The key is to figure out how
to answer counterfactuals.
>> Yeah. Interesting. So a stepping big
picture again. The reason I'm interested
in getting concrete understanding of
when this robot economy will be deployed
is because it's actually pretty relevant
to understanding how fast AGI will
proceed in the sense that well it's you
know obviously the data flywheel but
also if you just extrapolate out the
capex for AI suppose by 2030 you know
people have different estimates but many
people have estimates in the hundreds of
gigawatts 100 200 300 gawatt and then
you can just like crunch numbers on like
if you have 200 gawatts deployed
deployed or 100 gig was deployed by
2030. The cap the marginal capex for Eur
is like trillions of dollars. It's like
2 three 4 trillion a year. Um and that
corresponds to actual data centers you
got to build, actual um chip foundaries
you have to build, actual um solar panel
factories you got to build. And I'm very
curious about whether by this time by
2030 if the big bottleneck we have is
just like people uh to like lay out the
solar panels next to the data center or
assemble the data center whether the
robot economy will be mature enough to
helps significantly in that process.
>> That's cool. So you're basically saying
like uh how much concrete should I buy
now to build the data center so that by
2030 I can power all the robots.
>> Yeah. uh that that is a more ambitious
way of thinking about it than uh that
has occurred to me. But it's a cool
question. I mean the good thing of
course is that the robots can help you
build that stuff,
>> right? Well, but will they be able to by
the time that like there's there's some
like there's the non-rootic stuff which
will also like mandate a lot of uh capex
>> um and then there's a robot stuff where
you actually had to build robot
factories etc. But every just think
there will be this industrial explosion
across the whole stack and how much will
robotics be able to speed that up or
make it possible?
>> I mean in principle quite a lot, right?
Uh I think that we have a tendency
sometimes to think about robots as like
mechanical people.
>> But that's not the case, right? Like
people are people and robots are robots.
Like the the better analogy for the
robot, it's it's like your car or a
bulldozer. Uh like uh it has much lower
maintenance requirements. You can put
them into all sorts of weird places and
they don't have to look like people at
all. You can make a robot that's, you
know, 100 feet tall. You can make a
robot that's tiny. Uh, so I think that
if you have the intelligence to power
very heterogeneous robotic systems, you
can probably actually do a lot better
than just having like you know
mechanical people in effect. Uh, and it
can be a big productivity boost for the
real people. Uh, and it can allow you to
solve problems that are very difficult
to solve now. Yeah. uh you can you know
for example I'm not an expert on data
centers by any means but you could build
your data centers in a very remote
location because the robots don't have
to worry about whether there's like a
shopping center nearby
>> and then do you have a sense of how so
there's like where will the software be
and then there's a question of how many
physical robots will we have so like h
how many of the kinds of robots you're
training in physical intelligence like
these tabletop arms are there physically
in the world how many will there be by
2030 how many will be needed
I mean these are tough questions like
how many we needed for
>> these are very tough questions and also
you know economies of scale in robotics
so far have not functioned the same way
that they probably would in the long
term right um just to give you an
example when I started working in
robotics in 2014 I used a uh a very nice
research robot called a PR2 that cost uh
$400,000 to purchase. When I started my
research lab at UC Berkeley, I I bought
robot arms that were $30,000. The kind
of robots that we are using now at
physical intelligence, each arm costs
about $3,000 and we think they can be
made for a small fraction of that.
>> So these things
>> what is it what is the cause of that
learning rate?
>> Well, uh there are a few things. So one
of course has to do with economies of
scale. So customuilt high-end research
hardware of course is going to be much
more expensive than um kind of more
productionized hardware. But the other
and then of course there's a
technological element that as uh we get
better at building actuated machines uh
they become cheaper but there's also um
a software element which is the smarter
your AI system gets the less you need
the hardware to satisfy certain
requirements. So traditional robots and
factories uh they need to make motions
that are highly repeatable and therefore
it requires a degree of precision and
robustness that you don't need if you
can use cheap visual feedback. So AI
also makes robots more affordable uh and
lowers the requirements on the hardware.
>> Interesting. Okay. So do you think the
learning rate will continue? Do you
think it will cost hundreds of dollars
by the end of the decade to buy mobile
arms? That is a great question for my
co-founder uh Adnan Esmile who is uh
probably like the best person arguably
in the world to ask that question of but
certainly the drop in cost that I've
seen has surprised me year after year.
>> Okay. And how many arms are there
probably in the world? Is it more than a
million? Less than a million.
>> So I don't know the answer to that
question, but it's it's also a tricky
question to answer because not all arms
are made equal. Like arguably the kind
of robots that are like assembling cars
in a factory are just not the right kind
to think about. So the kind you want to
train on
>> very few because they are not currently
commercially deployed unlike the factory
robots. So like less than 100 thousand
>> I don't know but probably yeah
>> okay and we want
billions
of robot like at least millions of
robots if you're just thinking about
like the industrial explosion that you
need to um
>> have this AI explosive growth um not
only do you need the arms but then you
need like something that can move around
um
basically I'm just trying to think about
like will that be possible by the time
that you need a lot more rate labor to
power this um AI AI boom.
>> Well, you know, economies are very good
at filling demand when there's a lot of
demand, right? Like that how many
iPhones were in the world in in 2001,
right?
>> That's right.
>> So, uh I think it's defin there's
definitely a challenge there. Uh and I
think it's something that is worth
thinking about and a particularly
important question for researchers like
myself is how can AI affect how we think
about hardware, right? Because there are
some things that I think are going to be
really really important. Like you
probably want your thing to like not
break all the time. Yeah. There's some
things that are firmly in that category
of like question marks like how many
fingers do we need? Like you said
yourself before that you were kind of
surprised that a robot with two fingers
can do a lot. Okay. Maybe you still want
like more than that but still like
finding the bare minimum that still lets
you have good functionality. That's
important. That's in the question mark
box. And there's some things that I
think like we probably don't need. like
we probably don't need the robot to be
like super duper precise because we know
that feedback can compensate for that.
So I think my my job as I see it right
now is to figure out what's sort of the
minimal package we can get away with and
I really like to think about robots in
terms of minimal package because I don't
think that we will have like the one
ultimate robot like sort of the
mechanical person basically. Uh I think
what we will have is a bunch of things
that good effective robots needs to need
to satisfy just like good smartphones
need to have a touchcreen like that's
something that we all kind of agreed on
and then a bunch of other stuff that's
kind of optional depending on the need
depending on the cost point etc. And I
think there will be a lot of innovation
where once we have very capable AI
systems that can be plugged into any
robot to endow it with some basic level
of intelligence, then lots of different
people can innovate on how to get the
robot hardware to be optimal for each
niche it needs.
>> In terms of manufacturers, is there some
Nvidia of robotics?
>> Not right now. Maybe there will be
someday. Uh I I would really uh like
maybe I'm being idealistic, but I would
really like to see a world where there's
a lot of heterogeneity in robots.
>> What is the biggest bottleneck in the
hardware today as somebody who's
designed the algorithms that run on it?
>> It's it's a tough question to answer
mainly because things are changing so
fast. Um I think that to me the things
that I spend a significant amount of
time thinking about on the hardware side
is really more like reliability and
cost. It's not that I'm that like that
worried about cost. is just that cost
translates to number of robots which
translates to amount of data. And being
an ML person, I really like having lots
of data. So I really like having robots
that are low cost because then I can
have more of them and therefore more
data. And reliability is important more
or less for the same reason.
>> Um
>> but I think it's something that we'll
get more clarity on as things progress
because as we basically the AI systems
of today are not pushing the hardware to
the limit. So as the AI systems get
better and better, the harder we'll get
pushed to the limit and then we'll
hopefully have a much better answer to
your question.
>> Okay. So this is a question I've had for
a lot of guests and is that if you go
through any layer of this AI explosion,
you find that
a bunch of the actual source supply
chain is being manufactured in China. So
other than chips obviously but then you
know if you if you talk about data
centers and you're like oh all the
wafers for solar panels and a bunch of
the cells and modules etc are
manufactured in China then you just you
just go through the supply chain and
then um obviously robot arms are being
manufactured in China and so if you live
in this world where the
hardware is just incredibly valuable to
ramp up manufacturing of because each
robot can produce some fraction of the
value that a human worker can produce.
And not only is that true, but the value
of human workers or any kind of worker
has just tremendously skyrocketed
because we just need tons of bodies to
lay out the tens of thousands of solar
far acres of solar farms and uh data
centers and um uh foundaries and
everything. Um in this boom world, the
big bottleneck there is just like how
many robots can you physically deploy?
How many can you manufacture? Because
you guys are going to come up with the
algorithms now. we just need the
hardware. And so
this is a question I've asked many
guests which is that like if you look at
the part of the chain that you are
observing, what is the reason that China
just doesn't win by default? Right? If
they're producing all the robots um and
you come up with the algorithms that
make those robots super valuable um why
why don't they just win by default?
>> Yeah. Um so this is a very complex
question. Um I'll start with the with
the broader themes and then try to drill
a little bit into the details. So
one broader theme here is that if you
want to have an economy where
you get ahead by having a highly
educated workforce by having people that
uh have high productivity meaning that
for each person's hour of work uh lots
of stuff gets done. automation is really
really good because automation is what
multiplies the amount of productivity
that each person has. Again, same as
like LM coding tools. LM coding tools
amplify the productivity of a software
engineer. Robots will amplify the
productivity of uh basically everybody
that that is doing work. Uh now that's
that's kind of like a final state like a
desirable final state. Now there's
there's a lot of complexity in how you
get to that state, how you make that uh
uh an appealing journey uh to society,
how you navigate the geopolitical
dimension of that. Like all of that
stuff is actually pretty complicated and
it requires making a number of really
good decisions uh like uh you know good
decisions about uh investing in a
balanced uh robotics ecosystem uh
supporting both software innovation and
hardware innovation. Uh I don't think
any of those are insurmountable
problems. It just requires um a degree
of kind of uh long-term vision and the
right kind of balance of investment. But
what makes me really optimistic about
this is is is that that final state that
if I think we can all agree that in the
United States we would like to have the
kind of society where people are highly
productive where we have uh you know we
have highly educated people doing high
value work and because that that end
state is seems to me very compatible
with automation with robotics there's a
lot of at some level there should be a
lot of incentive to get to that state
>> and and then from there uh we have to
like solve for like all the details that
will help us get there and that's not
easy. Like I think there's a lot of like
complicated decisions that need to be
made on in terms of private industry, in
terms of investment, in terms of the
political dimension. But I'm very
optimistic about it because it's like it
seems to me like the light of the end at
the end of the tunnel is kind of it's in
the right direction. M I mean I yeah I
guess there's a different question which
is that if the value is sort of
bottlenecked by hardware and so you just
need to produce more hardware. What is
the path by which hundreds of millions
of robots or billions of robots are
being manufactured in the US or with
allies? I don't know how to approach
that question but it seems like a
different question than like okay well
what is the impact on like human wages
or something. So again, for the
specifics of how how we make that
happen, I think that's a very long
conversation that I'm probably not the
most qualified to speak to, but I think
that in terms of the ingredients, um the
ingredient here that I think is
important is that
>> robots help with uh physical things uh
physical work. And if producing robots
is itself physical work, then getting
really good at robotics should help with
that. It's a little circular, of course.
And uh you know as with all circular
things you have to like kind of
bootstrap it and and try to get that
that engine going. But
>> it seems like it is a an easier problem
to address than for example the problem
of uh digital devices where work goes
into creating you know computers, phones
etc. But the computers and phones don't
themselves help with the work.
>> Right? I guess feedback loops go both
ways. They can help you or they can help
others. And it's a positive some world.
So it's not necessarily bad that they
help others, but um to the extent that a
lot of the things which would go into
this feedback loop, the subcomponent uh
uh manufacturing and supply chain
already exists in China, it seems like
the stronger feedback loop would exist
in China. And then there's a separate
discussion like maybe that's fine.
>> Um maybe that's good and maybe they'll
continue exporting this to us. Um but it
just like notable that I just find it
notable that whenever I talk to a guest
about different things it's just like oh
yeah that you know within a few years
the key bottleneck to every single part
of the supply chain here will be
something that China is like the 80%
world supplier of something
>> well yeah and and this is why I said
before that I think something really
important to get right here is a
balanced robotics ecosystem right like I
I think I think AI is tremendously
exciting but I think we should also
recognize that getting AI high right is
not the only thing that we need to do.
Uh and we need to think about how to
balance uh our priorities, our
investment, the kind of things that we
spend our time on. Uh just as as an
example at physical intelligence, we do
take hardware very seriously actually.
Uh we uh we build a lot of our own
things. Uh and we want to have a
hardware road map alongside our AI road
map. But I think that you know that's
just us. I think that for uh the United
States, for you know, arguably for for
human civilization as a whole, like I
think we need to think about these
problems very holistically. Um and I
think it it is easy to get distracted
sometimes when there's a lot of
excitement, a lot of progress in one
area uh like AI uh and we are tempted to
lose track of other things including
things you've said like hey like you
know there's a hardware component,
there's a there's an infrastructure
component with compute and things like
that. So I think that in general it's
good to have a more holistic view of
these things and I wish we had you know
more holistic conversations about that
sometimes
>> I do think from the perspective of
society as a whole how how should they
be thinking about the advances in
robotics and knowledge work and I think
it's basically like society should be
playing for full automation like there
will be a period in which people's work
is way more valuable because there's
this huge boom in the economy we're like
building all these data centers or
building all these factories but then
eventually humans can do things with
their body and we can do things with our
And there's not like some secret third
thing. So what what should society be
planning for? It should be full
automation of humans. And there also be
a society be much wealthier. So
presumably there's ways to do this in a
way that like everybody is much better
off than they are today. But then like
the end state, the light at the end of
the tunnel is the full automation plus
super wealthy society with some
redistribution or whatever way to figure
that out. Right. I don't know if you
disagree with that characterization.
So I think at some level that's a very
reasonable uh way to look at things. But
I think that if there's one thing that
I've learned about technology, it's that
it rarely evolves quite the way that
people expect and sometimes the journey
is just as important as the destination.
So I think it's actually very difficult
to plan ahead for an end state. But I
think directionally what you said makes
a lot of sense and I and I do think that
it's very important for us collectively
to think about how to structure the
world around us in a way that is
amenable to greater and greater
automation across all sectors.
>> But I think we should really think about
the journey just as much as the
destination because things evolve in all
sorts of unpredictable ways and uh we'll
find
>> automation showing up in all sorts of
places probably not the places we expect
first. Uh so you know I think that the
constants here that I think are really
important is education is really really
valuable. Yeah like education is uh the
best buffer somebody has against the
negative effects of change. Uh so if
there is like one single lever that we
can pull collectively as a society it's
like more education because that's
>> true. I mean the morax paradox is like
the things which are like most
beneficial form education for humans
will might have be the easiest to
automate because it's really easy to
educate AIS you know you can throw the
textbooks it would take you eight years
of grad school to do at them in an
afternoon
>> well what education gives you is
flexibility uh so it's uh it's less
about the uh the particular facts you
know as it is about your ability to
acquire skills acquire understanding uh
so it has to be good education Right.
Okay. Sergey, thank you so much for
coming on the podcast. Super
fascinating.
>> Yeah, this was uh this was intense. We
ask tough questions.
>> I hope you enjoyed this episode. If you
did, the most helpful thing you can do
is just share it with other people who
you think might enjoy it. Send it to
your friends, your group chats, Twitter,
wherever else. Just let the word go
forth. Other than that, super helpful if
you can subscribe on YouTube and leave a
fivestar review on Apple Podcast and
Spotify. Check out the sponsors in the
description below. If you want to
sponsor a future episode, go to
dwarcash.com/advertise.
Thank you for tuning in. I'll see you on
the next one.